  Before this course, I was almost entirely obvlivious to the factors that went into creating digital history, it is such a process, I feel silly for not having paid much attention to it in the past. I have learned a lot about how useful digital history work can be in certain situations, and I now understand how it can transform data into something meaningful in an entirely different way than analog historians do. I feel like my biggest blunder in this course would be the actual part of learning how to use a multitude of different programs to transform data. I had fun exploring all of the different programs and learning what these programs are capable of doing, but I only got about half to two thirds of them to actually work. Either way, this is miles ahead of where I was six weeks ago, so I, personally, am pretty happy with that. I feel like I got through the majority of every week's work, and I am most proud of my reflections later on in the term. The readings really gave me a lot to think about, and I generated some thoughtful responses. I was really happy with how efficient and effective Dr. Graham was at helping me when I needed help throughout the term, and once I understood that there was no shame in it, even though I may have had to get help on multiple consecutive steps sometimes, I felt a lot better and a lot more confident tackling the weekly work. I think it was time and getting help that were two main factors for my evolution in this course. My weekly work, I think, was quite lackluster for the first two or three weeks, as I don't feel I got very far, or even spent that much time on the journal. However, after I felt more comfortable with the idea of digital history, and really understood it, as well as got support from the teacher directly, it really pulled me in and opened the door to some impressive progress from a simple gym rat such as myself. I think the part I did the most with and learned the most about would be the portion about translating one's digital history findings into something digestible by the majority. I learned a lot about the walls digital historians hit in trying to present their work, as their process is much different to the traditional history process, and therefore actually looked down upon by some scholars and other academics. There were many different ways a digital historian can tackle trying to present their findings online, and I learned a lot of them. Some were simple, and I had fun with them, like inkscape, podcasts, and static websites. I managed to pull off those projects pretty nicely, and I learned a ton of things through inkscape and am excited to work with it in my future history classes to present my findings. Overall, I would say that the amount of progress I made improved by the week, and I only wish that there were more units to work through, as I feel like I could really get sucked into this after a while. But, for only a six week term, I feel like I have made a lot of steps forward, and this knowledge of digital history, as well as some of the programs to create it like Antconc, inkscape and gephi, will stick with me in the future to help me get an edge against all of those analog historians at Carleton!

Thank you for an awesome course Dr. Graham and TA's!!!!
